Professional television critics deemed Martin Keamy a welcome addition to the cast . Jeff Jensen of Entertainment Weekly commented that Kevin Durand " is emerging as a real find this season ; he plays that mercenary part with a scene @-@ stealing mix of menace and damaged vulnerability . " After Jensen posted what he thought were the fifteen best moments of the season , the New York Post 's Jarett Wieselman " ha [ d ] to complain about one glaring omission from EW 's list : Martin Keamy . I have loved this character all season long — and not just solely for [ his ] physical attributes ... although those certainly don 't hurt . " Alan Sepinwall of The Star @-@ Ledger reflected , " He was only on the show for a season and not featured all that much in that season , but Kevin Durand always made an impression as Keamy . Lots of actors might have his sheer physical size , but there 's a sense of danger ( insanity ? ) that you can 't build at the gym , you know ? " IGN 's Chris Carabott wrote that " Keamy is one of the more striking new additions to Lost [ in the fourth ] season ... and is a welcome addition to the Lost universe . " Maureen Ryan of The Chicago Tribune stated that Keamy has " so much charisma " and she would " rather find out more about [ him ] than most of the old @-@ school Lost characters " . TV Guide 's Bruce Fretts agreed with a reader 's reaction to Durand 's " chilling portrayal " of Keamy and posted it in his weekly column . The reader , nicknamed " huntress " , wrote " love him or hate him , nobody is neutral when it comes to Keamy , which is the hallmark of a well @-@ played villain . Even the camera seems to linger on Durand , who conveys malice with just a look or tilt of his head . This role should give Durand 's career a well @-@ deserved boost " . Following his demise , Whitney Matheson of USA Today noted that " it seems Keamy , Lost 's camouflaged baddie , is turning into a bit of a cult figure . " A " hilarious " blog containing Keamy digitally edited into various photographs , posters and art titled " Keamy 's Paradise " was set up in early June 2008 . TV Squad 's Bob Sassone thought that the blog was " a great idea " and " funny " and he called Keamy " the Boba Fett of Lost " . In 2009 , Kevin Durand was nominated for a Saturn Award for Best Guest Starring Role in a Television Series .