In 2007 , as the second @-@ string quarterback , he saw his first action against Villanova when he was substituted for injured starter Jordan Steffy . Turner executed a scoring drive and completed four of six passes , but also threw two interceptions . He sat out the next two games and then took one snap against Wake Forest . When the unranked Terps faced 10th @-@ ranked Rutgers , Steffy suffered a concussion and Turner again filled in . He led drives for two touchdowns and two field goals in an upset of the Scarlet Knights , 34 – 24 . About the then relatively unknown Turner , Rutgers head coach Greg Schiano said , " I wish I would have seen this guy before . " Turner started for the remaining eight games of the season . In his career @-@ first start , he passed for 255 yards in a win against Georgia Tech , 28 – 26 . In the game , he threw a 78 @-@ yard touchdown pass , which was caught by tight end Jason Goode rather than his intended receiver , Darrius Heyward @-@ Bey . After a three @-@ game losing streak , Turner led another upset win over a top @-@ ten team , this time against eighth @-@ ranked Boston College , 42 – 35 . In the 24 – 16 loss to Florida State , Turner had his worst performance of the season . Late in the second quarter , he was benched and replaced by Steffy for two possessions . Turner said , " I didn 't know that my leash was that short in the first place , to be honest . I didn 't think it would come to this . I guess I should have . " After an uneven performance by Steffy , Turner played the entire second half and showed improvement . The following week Maryland played their regular season finale against NC State and both teams needed an additional win to attain bowl eligibility . Maryland led in the second quarter , 3 – 0 , but was struggling offensively . Turner , a generally immobile pocket quarterback , invigorated the offense when he executed a 41 @-@ yard option run for a first down . He completed 19 of 24 passes for 206 yards and led a shutout of NC State , 37 – 0 . With the sixth win , Maryland was invited to the Emerald Bowl , where they were beaten by Oregon State , 21 – 14 . Turner finished the season as the third @-@ most efficient passer in the Atlantic Coast Conference ( ACC ) .