Upon returning to the freighter , Keamy unsuccessfully attempts to kill Michael Dawson ( Harold Perrineau ) , whom he has discovered is Ben 's spy , then obtains the " secondary protocol " from a safe . The protocol contains instructions from Widmore for finding Ben if he finds out Keamy 's intention to torch the island , which he apparently had . The protocol contains details about a 1980s research station called the " Orchid " that was previously run by a group of scientists working for the Dharma Initiative . Keamy is also informed by Captain Gault that Keamy and his mercenary squad may be suffering from some sort of mental sickness , a notion Keamy dismisses . Later in the day , Omar straps a dead man 's switch to Keamy , rigged to detonate C4 on the freighter if Keamy 's heart stops beating . That night , Frank refuses to fly the mercenaries to the island . In a display of power , Keamy slits the throat of the ship 's doctor Ray ( Marc Vann ) and throws him overboard and later outdraws and shoots Captain Gault ( Grant Bowler ) during a tense standoff . Frank flies the remaining five mercenaries back to the island . On December 30 , the team apprehends Ben at the Orchid and takes him to the chopper where they are ambushed and killed by Ben 's people — referred to as the " Others " by the 815 survivors — and 815 survivors Kate Austen ( Evangeline Lilly ) and Sayid Jarrah ( Naveen Andrews ) . After a chase to recapture Ben and a brawl with Sayid , Keamy is shot in the back by Richard Alpert ( Nestor Carbonell ) , who leaves him for dead , unaware of Keamy 's bulletproof vest . Later , Keamy descends into the Orchid 's underground level via its elevator to stalk Ben , who hides in the shadows . Goading Ben with taunts about his daughter 's death , Keamy is ambushed by Ben , who beats him into submission with an expandable baton before stabbing him repeatedly in the neck . Though Locke attempts to save his life for the sake of the freighter , Keamy dies and the dead man 's trigger detonates the explosives on the freighter , killing nearly everyone aboard .